---
title: "Garrett Forgefinger"
---

# Garrett Forgefinger (Axemaker)
## Summary
|           |                                                        |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Level     | 4                                                      |
| Species   | Dwarf                                                  |
| Class     | Rogue                                                  |
| Subclass  | Thief                                                  |
| Last Seen | Leaving with a party to find the Æostara's lost pearl  |
## Backstory
Growing up in a small mining town in the mountains, Garrett Axemaker was one of two sons to a respected but not particularly successful blacksmith. Their mother having passed away when they were young, Garrett and his older brother [[Goron Axemaker|Goron]] were raised by their father to assist with and eventually take over the family business. The Axemaker Forge had a reasonable group of loyal customers but never had the resources to meet additional demand, often leading new customers to seek the services of other blacksmiths found in the town. 

Slowly, the business dwindled as their father struggled to secure supplies of key materials. One day when wandering about the town, Garrett noticed a rival blacksmith stored his materials in the yard beside his house, guarded by a medium-sized fence. That night, he snuck out of the house, climbed over the fence and neighbouring rooftops to access the yard, and took a few items - just enough for him to carry, and that wouldn't be noticed as missing. Similarly, when he added it to his father's own stores, his father did not notice that there was additional supplies, instead assuming that he had miscalculated how much was left. 

For years, Garrett spent his nights taking just a few items from rival blacksmiths in order to ensure his father's own stores were well stocked, and in doing so mastered the fundamentals of thievery. Life was good, until an altercation between his father and a customer; the latter accused the blacksmith of overcharging him for a sword of sub-par quality, which the blacksmith steadfastly (and rightly) denied. Tempers flared as the customer refused to leave at the blacksmith's request, and the incident ended with the customer lashing out in anger, sword in hand. He caught the blacksmith's neck, causing Garrett's father to bleed out. The customer fled in fear, moments before Garrett and Goron discovered their father on the floor of his workshop. Garrett pursued, managing to tackle the customer to the ground until the town was able to apprehend him, but by the time Garrett returned home, his father was dead, cradled by a weeping Goron. 

The brothers, unsure how to process their grief, both threw themselves into their work: Goron into running the forge, Garrett into his night-time thievery (a pastime he had always kept secret from both his father and brother). Garrett would also assist Goron by day, but his work became sloppy due to lack of sleep - the young dwarf spent more and more time at night seeking useful items to take, not wanting to return home due to the awful memories it now held. The relationship between the two brothers soured as Goron struggled to keep the business afloat and viewed his brother's lacklustre work as laziness. Goron threatened to hire someone to replace Garrett, before recognising that he could not afford to do so. This throwaway comment led Garrett to begin stealing money - and breaking into houses to find them. As with mining and forging materials, he only took what wouldn't be noticed to begin with, but he became more and more ambitious with each passing night. 

For a full year, Garrett hoarded what money he could find, hiding it in one of the many nooks and crannies he had discovered or fashioned around the house and the workshop during his early years of thieving. During this time, the quality of his work declined further and his relationship with his brother grew more bitter, triggering many a contemptuous comment from Goron. When Goron, in a moment of anger, blasted Garrett for running away from their dying father, leaving him to watch their sole parent and guardian breathe his final breath, the younger brother decided it was time to go. In the dead of night, he gathered all his coin, piled it into an empty crate in the workshop and left a note for his brother, wishing him luck with the future of the business. Garrett gathered what little belongings he needed, ventured out into the night, and left the mining town for good.

He travelled the realm aimlessly, using his skills as a thief to secure food and drink, or coin with which to purchase food and drink. When he could steal enough money, he would rent a room at the first inn he could find, allowing him to bath. If he found a particularly affluent town, he would stay for a few weeks, using an abandoned loft or barn as a base of operations as he took what he could without it being so much that the townspeople noticed and began searching for a thief. He quickly saved up for new clothes, including a hooded cloak, as well as tools and weapons, such as a dagger and lockpicks. In one of the largest towns he visited, he spotted a hand crossbow in a shop window and took an instant fancy to it. It became his first and (so far) only impulse purchase and, determined to ensure this was not a frivolous decision, he began practicing with it on a daily basis, greatly improving his accuracy and speed. 

In a coastal town, he began casing a particularly splendid manor house. While sneaking around the grounds looking for a way in, he (quite literally) bumped into another thief: [[Basso Rockbreaker]], a fellow dwarf from a distant city built within a mountain. Recognising kindred sprits in each other, Garrett and Basso agreed to work with each other on this job, splitting the loot evenly. The plan worked magnificently, each dwarf taking home more wealth than they possibly could have managed alone. They agreed to work together again, and again, and for two years, the pair of dwarven thiefs pulled off some of the most impressive heists the realm had ever known. 

Basso pushed Garrett to let them target bigger scores, stretching the limits of the latter's 'only take what won't be noticed' method. Eventually, they took something valuable and noticeable enough that it was impossible not to attract the attention of the Watch: Lady Van Vernon's Hammerite Sapphire necklace. With the Watch combing the streets to find the culprits, Basso and Garrett agreed that it would be safer to split up temporarily. Basso took the necklace, assuring Garrett that he knew a fence who could shift it and that he would bring his share of the payment to a rendezvous point at a woodland town nearby. Garrett arrived at the agreed location at the agreed time... only to find the Watch waiting for him. As he was searched, the officers found the necklace chain and housing for the sapphire, but no jewel. 

It was clear to Garrett what had happened: Basso has betrayed him, keeping the sapphire for himself and planting the remnants of the necklace in the pocket of his tunic. Garrett was arrested, tried, convicted and punished as all thieves in that part of the realm are: his hands were cut off at the wrist. 

Unable to steal, unable to work, Garrett had no choice but to begin the long journey home. Starving, weary, and barely able to walk, he eventually stumbled into his home town and collapsed on the floor of his father's workshop. Goron found him and reluctantly nursed him back to health. After Garrett explained what had happened, and why he had left in the first place, the brothers called a truce. Slowly, they began to repair their relationship. Garrett assisted around the forge however he could, but his abilities were limited given the lack of hands. Goron was understanding and appreciative of what help his brother could manage. 

In his absence, the forge had prospered: Goron had done as Garrett's note had suggested, using the ill-gotten gains to hire an assistant - a feisty dwarven maiden named [[Mera]]. Over the years, Goron and Mera had fallen in love, married, and shared responsibility for the forge. Mera had a keen business mind and was able to find ways to make the process more effecient and cost effective, improving the fortunes of the family and relieving much of the pressure from Goron. Garrett, concerned that he would affect the respectability of the family business, stayed inside the house and never ventured outside, worried that the handless thief would bring shame upon everything Goron and Mera had built together. As far as the rest of the town was concerned, he had never returned. 

A year after Garrett returned to his hometown, now closer than ever with his brother (and his wife), Goron came to him with a proposal. Having studied the science behind automatons, he believed he would be able to forge mechancial hands for his brother. The process was long, with many failed prototypes, but eventually Goron succeeded and Garrett was complete again. Fortunately, the various tasks around the forge helped him gain mastery of his new hands and he soon found he was more dextrous and nimble than before. He even began constructing locks from unused or unneeded materials and began practising with his old lockpicks. He found he could unlock faster than he could before. He even discovered a way to attach lockpicks to his metal fingers, which also aided the process. 

The practice with the lockpicks - originally nothing more than an exercise in dexterity - brought his past life as a thief back to mind. In his dreams, Basso mocked him from across the realm. After a few months, he could take it no longer: he told Goron and Mera that he needed to leave. His brother and sister-in-law cautioned him against this, urging him to stay in the safety of the forge, but Garrett's mind was resolute. Promising he would return someday, and perhaps visit when he could, Garrett prepared to depart. As he packed his things, he gazed about his childhood home and once again found himself conscious of how respected it had become, even more so than when his father ran the business. Determined not to bring shame upon the family, he resolved to take on a new identity and keep his life as a thief separate from that of his home. 

In the dead of night, Garrett Forgefinger left the town, perhaps for the final time, keen to seek out riches, new challenges, and revenge.
## The Withered Age
Garrett joined a party of adventurers heading east in search of Æostara's lost pearl. It is not known if he ever returned for this adventure