---
title: "Nymphadora Nightingale"
---
# Nymphadora Nightingale
## Summary
| Level   | 1    |
| ------- | ---- |
| Species | Elf  |
| Class   | Bard |

## Backstory
Elenara Rosewood had a happy childhood. The only child of a noble high elf family, she wanted for nothing but the values her parents imparted on her ensured she did not grow up spoiled, conceited or arrogant. They encouraged her in her studies from a young age, but also taught her the importance of creativity, relaxation, and appreciating the beauty of nature. For the latter, she was allowed to roam the acres of land around the manor - one of her favourite pastimes, second only to reading. 

It was while exploring her father's land that she made a discovery that would change the course of her life. 

Traipsing through woodland not too far from the manor, she stepped on a weakened root that was covering a deep hole. The root snapped and Elenara fell into the depths below, finding herself in an ancient tunnel. Steeling herself, she ventured deeper, seeking both a way out and the truth behind the tunnel's existence. It was not long before she came upon a chamber with an altar before a pillar in the centre. The pillar bore a strange symbol: four ornate keys atop a four-point star. There was no indication as to what this symbol meant, nor what the chamber was used for, although both the stories and historical accounts she had read led her to make some educated guesses. The altar and the ornate pool at the back suggested this was a place where rituals had been held, but the dust, leaves, and overgrown ivy throughout the room suggested that no ritual had been completed in hundreds, if not thousands of years.

The pool at the rear of the chamber proved to be her escape. From the chamber side, she could see that it led to an underwater tunnel and, being a strong swimmer, she was able to find the other end before she struggled for breath. It emerged in the small lake beneath a waterfall she recognised as being on the southern border of her father's land. 

Intrigued by the symbol and the mysterious chamber, she threw herself into her historical and mythological studies, searching for any reference to either. It was many years later that she learned of the symbol's meaning: It was the mark of an ancient and secret society, the Order of the Keys, who believed the four gods of Eshana were once mortals who stole great power. The Order believed there were artifacts hidden throughout the land which would allow other mortals to ascend to the plane of the gods and claim this power for themselves. Years of study by distinguished academics and archaeologists had dismissed the Order's beliefs as folklore and decried all past members as deluded fanatics.

It was only then that she told her parents of her childhood discovery, asking if they knew of the chamber and its history. Her father, Lord Orondos, ascribed to the belief that the order were a cult whose religion had no basis on fact, positing that it was an abandoned ruin from long before House Rosewood's time, while her mother, Lady Isaria, discouraged her from exploring the chamber further for fear of her daughter harming herself. The hole Elenara discovered was boarded over, although she kept the underwater tunnel to herself. She returned to the chamber a few times, attempting to study it as if it were her own archaeological study, but if there were additional secrets to be found down there, she did not discover them. 

Nevertheless, Elenara's interest was piqued and she vowed to learn more. She fantasised about discovering tombs and other hidden sanctuaries where the artifacts were hidden, using them to see whether the plane of the gods truly existed. She imagined meeting them, and the demi-gods who dwelled there with them. She imagined their gratitude as she handed them the artifacts the Order sought, ensuring their power and the natural order of the world was safe. 

These dreams became less fanciful as she matured, and by the time she was 100 -- approaching elven adulthood -- she professed her desire to become an archaeologist to her parents. They encouraged her to continue her studies, but warned her that she would still have a responsibility to House Rosewood, especially in light of the current political climate. 

Over the past few decades, rifts had developed throughout high elf society with noble families vying for power. The house of Rosewood was seen as relatively stable, and the respect both Elenara's mother and father commanded ensured that it had few rivals or enemies. Nevertheless, tensions among the community were high. During this time, Elenara was taken to various balls and society functions, in part to improve her relations with the rest of the elven community. 

It was at one such occasion that she met Rhunion Silvertree, heir to the house of Silvertree. Charming and carefree, she found him easy to converse with and they shared a number of interests, including history, literature, and he was even a fellow musician. The pair began to meet regularly, dining at either of their families' estates, visiting the theatre, even roaming the grounds of their homes with their instruments slung across their back. A favourite pastime for the couple would be playing music under the stars in front of a roaring campfire, she on the lute, he on the lyre. 

It was not long after her 105th birthday that Rhunion asked her father for Elenara's hand in marriage. Lord Orondos approved, considering it a smart match, and preparations for the wedding began. The big day arrived without complication, and the entire noble community was united in their celebration of Elenara and Rhunion's love. Elenara had never been happier.

In a break from tradition, Rhunion suggested they move into the Rosewood Manor after the wedding. He reasoned that the Silverwood Estate was already crowded with his four younger brothers, and Elenara was delighted to remain close to her parents. Married life at her childhood home was blissful... but her husband's mood changed just a few months later.

Rhunion took to wallking the Rosewood grounds on an almost daily basis. Elenara would offer to accompany him, remembering the delightful walks from their courtship, but he would insist he wanted some time alone. When he returned, he would be irritable. Elenara asked him what was wrong, but he dismissed her concerns and told her it was nothing she needed to worry about. 

The truth was revealed just a few weeks later. Elenara awoke in the middle of the night to find she was alone in bed. Slipping on her nightgown, she made her way downstairs, stopping as she heard raised voices. She crept forward then froze, aware of movement in the hall below her. Two figures in hooded robes marched down the hall, crossbows in hand. Worried for the safety of her husband and her family, she returned to the bedroom and found her Moon-Touched Rapier -- a 100th birthday gift from her parents, selected due to her recent win in a fencing tournament. Keeping it sheathed so the light of its blade did not betray her, she crept downstairs. 

She could hear a voice. Rhunion's voice. He sounded angry, distressed. She crept along the hall, looking out for more of the robed figures as she went. The voices came from her father's study. She was about to enter when Rhunion's words stopped her short: "The Order of the Keys." Peering through the slightly opened door, she saw her father being held by two robed figures. She then froze in horror as she saw her mother's body on the ornamental rug, lying in a pool of blood. A male elf stood before her father, talking down at him. It was Rhunion. 

Her eyes never left her mother's body as she listened to her husband's ranting. He was seeking one of the keys from the symbol, believed to be hidden in a chamber somewhere within the Rosewood grounds. He openly admitted to Lord Orondos that the marriage had served just one purpose: to give him free rein and eventually ownership of the Rosewood estate, with the family's wealth (which he would inherit due to the lack of a male heir) as a delightful bonus. Elenara's world collapsed around her. 

Before she could learn why Rhunion was seeking the Order's secret chamber, one of his hooded minions surprised her. Years of training in fencing and other forms of noble combat sports allowed her to quickly gain the upper hand and fatally stab her attack with the rapier. She trembled as she realised she had taken a life, albeit in self-defence, but there was no time to fully process this - or indeed the death of her mother and the revelations she had just heard - because the sounds of the fight attracted Rhunion's attention. Elenara fled. 

She saddled her beloved horse and galloped down the manor's tree-lined driveway, but more hooded minions guarded the gateway and Rhunion was already in pursuit on his own horse. She tried to evade him, leading him on a wild chase throughout the estate but he was gaining on her. Realising where she was, she made a desperate plan. Kissing her horse and apologising to the beautiful creature, she made her way to the top of the waterfall and kicked her mount in a way that would cause it to rear up and panic. As Rhunion approached, she feined panic and purposefully fell from her saddle and off the cliff, plunging into the icy water below. She quickly swam through the hidden tunnel into the Order of the Keys' secret chamber, where she waited. She wasn't sure how long she waited but she was certain it was enough time to convince her husband that she had drowned.

Not daring to leave via the tunnel in case the lake was being watched, she ventured down the tunnel. This time, her Moon-Touched Rapier illuminated the path ahead and she followed it cautiously. After half an hour, she found herself at a dead end, but the wall was wooden rather than stone. She listened but could hear no sounds on the other side. Looking around, she found a mechanism that opened a secret door - back into her father's study! 

Her father lay beside her mother, blood oozing from a dagger wound in his side. His eyes lit up with relief and fear as he saw his daughter. With great effort, he crawled over to the bookcase and took something out from a hidden compartment. He handed the object to her, and with his dying breath urged her to flee, to start a new life, any life she wanted, away from Rosewood, and to stay away from the Order. Elenara wept as her father slumped to the ground. Through bleary eyes, she looked at the object in her hands. It was the key. 

The Rosewood Manor was abandoned, but she could hear Rhunion and his henchmen shouting commands at each other across the estate. She gathered any supplies she thought she would need, including the only book on the Order she had found over the years, and the plainest clothes she owned. She could hear Rhunion and his men returning as she snuck back to the secret door in the study, closing it behind her and returning down the tunnel. In the light of her rapier, she changed to get ready for travel, before returning to the ritual chamber and swimming out through the underwater tunnel. Checking the coast was clear, she walked down river, away from the Rosewood estate, away from high elf territory, and deeper into the heart of Eshana. 

Over the 15 years that have followed, Elenara has travelled much of the land. She pursued further studies and opportunities in archeology, partly out of genuine interest and partly in the hopes of learning more about the key and the Order. Eventually, she identified sites of potential interest, but securing funding proved to be nigh on impossible - few would invest in a lone woman planning to lead expeditions and digs that are usually handled by dozens of men. Desperate, she found herself singing on the street for coins, which proved to be her only source of income. As the reputation of her angelic voice spread, she began singing in taverns, inns and even at a few village festivals. She saved up her money and bought a lute and other instruments, as well as some finer clothes, to improve her act. And all the while, she sought rumours and legends of the Order. 

As she travelled, she encountered and briefly befriended other bards, but she was frustrated to learn how much creative licence they took with historical fact. The liberties some took with the tale of Æostara’s Lost Pearl particularly vexed her, as this was a childhood favourite. She vowed to combine her knowledge of history, and the new things she learned, to impart truth upon her audiences, singing not just of heroes and triumphs, but of the discrepancies and errors. At first, listeners balked at the notion, but over time many came to feel they gained something from listening to her songs.

When seeking funding for her one-woman expeditions, she had attempted to use a variety of fake names -- word had spread that the entire Rosewood family had been killed by crazed cultists, survived only by the 'grieving' Rhunion Silvertree who "took responsibility of the estate with a heavy heart." As her reputation as a bard grew, she tried a couple of stage names in various regions but only one picked up traction: Nymphadora Nightingale.